---
title: '[译] 专利价值评估：你需要知道的事'
date: 2019-08-06 17:10:21
tags:
---
## 专利价值评估
在一些交易中，专利价值评估对公司来说是必要的：
- 合并与收购
- 公司清算
- 重组
- 侵权评估

由于专利是一项无形资产，所以在赋予它经济价值时，通常会碰到不少问题。

最典型的评估专利价值的方法是「经济分析法（the economic-analysis methodology）」。一件专利的价值可能从零元至几十亿元不等。像买卖有形资产，库存，商品那样的成熟市场，在专利买卖中并不存在。除非你评估的是一件可以预期稳定产生许可收入流的专利，专利的价值可能主要取决于客户的需求以及资产。并且值得注意的是，批量购买的专利，通常不会像单独购买一两件专利那样受到价值评估的审查。

## 专利是资产，所以可以学习如何评估它们

对于公司来说，创新是让它们保持市场竞争力的有力武器。维持这种武器的方法，就是防止竞争对手公司使用它们。专利给与了公司一种在一段时间内保持它们的创新不被竞争对手所使用的办法。

## 专利是什么
A patent is a unique right granted to an inventor for a set time period. A patent excludes others from making, utilizing, or promoting the merchandise in question during the patent's life. As soon as a patent has been granted to an inventor, she or he has the authority to ban others from making or promoting the invention within the country in which the patent was granted.
专利是在一段时间内赋予发明人的一个独占权。

Innovations usually are of three different classes of legal nature, pure phenomena, and summary concepts Innovations that search to be patented:

Machines
Human-made merchandise
Processing strategies
The invention should be unique. The invention can't be one which has been introduced to the general public before or be one that's included in patent software to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Workplace.

The invention won't be patented if the invention only differs from a previously patented invention by making apparent modifications. The inventor should adequately describe the invention in a way that can allow an individual without expertise (in other words, a layman) to understand the invention.

Types of Patents
There are three types of patents:

Plant
Utility
Design
A plant patent is granted by the federal government to an inventor who has invented or found a brand-new type of plant. Plant patent lasts 20 years from the date of submitting and prevents anybody else from promoting or utilizing the plant.

Utility patents are granted to inventors who invent or uncover any new and helpful process, software program or machine, or any new practical enhancement to a current invention. A utility patent often lasts 20 years from the submission date.

A design patent protects an invention's decorative design, improved ornamental look, or form. A design patent is acceptable when the elemental product already exists and isn't being improved upon in operation, but solely in model. A design patent lasts 14 years from the date the patent is granted.

Getting a Patent
In many circumstances, it could actually take about two years for patents obtained within the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to be processed. Functions are often numbered in sequential order, and candidates who apply by mail are often notified inside eight weeks of the appliance quantity and official submitting date. If filed electronically, the application is delivered within minutes. When preparing for the appliance to get accepted, the inventor could make merchandise with a "patent pending" designation. The associated fee related to acquiring a patent often contains the following:

Authorized charges
Submission charges
Prosecution charges
Translation prices
Upkeep charges
How to Tell What Patents Are Worth
Firms should decide on the standard of the underlying invention outlined within the patent. Firms should consider whether or not the patent is effectively constructed and learn how to extract worth from the patent.

Economic Analysis
Price strategy states that a patent's worth is another value – the amount that will be crucial to exchange the security rights on the invention. The alternative value of a product refers back to the amount of cash that will be paid when buying the merchandise. A potential consumer wouldn't be keen to pay more for a patent than the quantity she or he must pay to acquire the same secure right.

Revenue strategy methodology seems to predict money flows in valuation. Income approach states that a patent's worth is the current worth of the incremental money flows or value financial savings it can assist currently.

Market strategy methodology entails figuring out what a willing buyer would pay for a similar property. In different phrases, the patent's worth is the worth of comparable patents or patented merchandise which have been purchased previously. Two issues should be in place for this strategy for use for patent valuation:

The existence of a lively market for the patent
An identical market and previous transactions of comparable property
Search for related values for the next gadgets when searching for comparable patents:

Business traits
Market share
Market share potential
Progress prospects
Quantitative Valuation of a Patent
There's a fourth valuation model that focuses on easy metrics, such as the variety of patents in a portfolio, the variety of claims in a patent, or the variety of instances given patent is cited by later patents. A fifth valuation model focuses on the administration crew charged with exploiting the patent. Quantitative valuation is essential in evaluating property for a merger or acquisition, for allocating R&D improvement prices, for establishing collateral, and for figuring out damages throughout litigation. The valuation evaluation is identical for each license and assignment, with the proviso that there's a considerably larger perceived worth for the assignee to carry a patent than for the licensee to carry a license.

Royalty Rates
If a patent is licensed, the valuation usually turns close to the anticipated royalty price. For many technology patents, the place to begin for royalties is about 3 percent, with especially useful patents fetching values of 7-10 percent. Prescribed drugs can fetch as much as 20 percent and more, but solely because the margins can run 80 - 90 percent, and the barrier to entry of competing merchandise is especially expensive.

The usual rule of thumb for estimating royalty charges is that the licensor ought to obtain 20 – 25 percent of the marginal worth of the patent. If holding a license to a patent permits the licensee to double his gross sales, then 20-25 percent of the marginal revenue from these marginal gross sales ought to go to the licensor. The royalty needs to be calculated as operated of all elevated income per sale and elevated gross sales.

When making these calculations, it can be necessary to account for all marginal prices. This implies analysis of each direct price, together with raw supplies and manufacturing, and side expenses, together with product distribution, administrative overhead, borrowing prices, and the danger of opening a brand-new market. Also, marginal revenue should amortize the startup and shutdown prices of manufacturing, promoting, and distributing the product over the estimated lifetime of the product. When licensing an original part of a bigger product, it is usually necessary to understand that the right royalty price is dependent upon how necessary the half is to your complete product.

Royalties from Pending Applications
Within the U.S., one can't implement a patent toward a competitor until the patent is official. Congress modified the legislation in about 2000, and it allowed a patent holder to acquire an affordable royalty for the exercise of a competitor within the window between publication of the patent software and the date of the patent issuance.

The royalty is barely accessible if:

The issued claims are considerably the identical because the printed claims.
The competitor had precise information about the printed software.
It is usually doable to license or promote the subject material of pending software, despite the fact that the scope of the ultimately issued claims is unknown on the time. In effect, the licensee assumes the danger that the patent won't ever expire, or that the claims may have little business use, in exchange for the confidence that it could actually push ahead with researching or commercializing the invention without having to later attempt to negotiate a royalty.

Payment Schedules
One other facet of patent valuation entails the timing of funds to the assignor or licensor. If the online current worth of the royalties is calculated to be a million, which cash could be paid out as a lump sum cost over time with nothing up front, or with some cost up front with some royalty. Though the online worth of all of the choices ought to theoretically total the identical price despite the timing, in use the valuation is closely discounted (as much as 75 percent) in which there's a massive up-front cost.

There are many causes for this, largely having to do with allocation of danger. Larger up-front cost means that the assignee/licensee is taking extra risk, whereas lower upfront cost implies that the danger is being shared.

Things to Watch out for
One problem that always arises is the discrepancy in valuation depending on who's doing the manufacturing. If the patent holder is merely licensing the patent to a producer, the estimated revenue might be significantly lower (by three quarters or extra) than if the patent holder has created and promoted the product. However, that distinction is deceptive because it fails to account for the dangers and prices concerned in manufacturing, distribution, and patent enforcement. From an infringement standpoint, one wants to think that the competitor will avoid attempting to outrun the patent of a multibillion greenback firm, but could be keen to estimate an infringement motion introduced.

There may be a considerable swindle occurring with firms donating their unused patents to charities. There, the tendency is to value the patent as much as doable because the corporate can write off the donated worth. Since patents are notoriously troublesome to value, it's fairly troublesome for the tax authorities to challenge the valuation.

Different errors in valuation can also arise from biases of the individuals valuing the patent. A vendor or licensor will virtually always make assumptions that improve the worth, whereas a purchaser or licensor will always make assumptions that lower the worth.

One other issue of appreciable significance is stacking. If a licensee is already paying a primary licensor a 5 percent royalty on his product, he's unlikely to pay a second licensor another 5 percent, whatever the worth of the second licensor's patent. That state of affairs is often dealt with within the license settlement by an anti-stacking clause, which limits complete royalties to be paid.

If you need help with your patent valuation, you can post your legal need on UpCounsel’s marketplace. UpCounsel accepts only the top 5 percent of lawyers to its site. Lawyers on UpCounsel come from law schools such as Harvard Law and Yale Law and average 14 years of legal experience, including work with or on behalf of companies like Google, Menlo Ventures, and Airbnb.

原文链接：https://www.upcounsel.com/patent-valuation
